fix(translations): deeper etymology (#17)
corpora-inc/books: yijing/iching_export.md

{\Large 元亨，利牝馬之貞。君子有攸往，先迷後得主，利。西南得朋，東北喪朋。安貞吉。}
\end{center}

> > Primal offering, bounty in the mare&#x27;s divinity. The superior person has a destination, initially lost then obtaining guidance, advantage. Southwest to obtain friendship; northeast to lose friends. Peaceful divination auspicious.

Reviewer: @azhrcs - I actually hand translated this one

> 利牝馬之貞

I'm actually viewing "steadfastness" as a red flag that it's a translation that needs review - it's Han/Jesuit/German moralizing for `貞`? I actually like "the mare's divinity" .. open to other interpretations .. in this case "steadfastness" actually fits because it's "the mare" and I think that is related to the divinity of the mare 🤔

{\Large 即鹿无虞，惟入于林中，君子幾不如舍，往吝}
\end{center}

> > Chasing deer, no scout. Deep in the woods alone. The superior balks—pushing on bites.

Reviewer: I kinda' like mine better 😿

> {\Large 亨。匪我求童蒙，童蒙求我。初筮告，再三瀆，瀆則不告。利貞}

Reviewer: I think we should remove all of the punctuation in the Chinese. I was learning that this is really 20th-century style ... the punctuation may be the biggest fountain of gloss in the whole corpus ... maybe the meaning becomes even more broad without the artificial divisions? Are they artificial? Hrm ...

\end{center}

> > Offering. Not I seek the youthful fool, the youthful fool seeks me. The first divination speaks—repeated thrice profanes, profaned it won’t speak. Bounty is fated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Offering. Not I seeking the youthful fool, the youthful fool seeking me. The first divination speaks—repeated thrice profanes, profaned it won’t speak. Bounty is fated.
```

{\Large 訟元吉}
\end{center}

> > Contention, primal auspiciousness

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Contention with auspicious beginnings
```

Reviewer: again, I think "primal" is usually wrong for `元`

{\Large 吉。原筮元永貞，无咎。不寧方來，後夫凶。}
\end{center}

> > Auspicious. Original divination: primal, enduring divination, no blame. Unsettled regions come, the latecomer ominous.

Reviewer: I'm really not sure how to handle this one 🤔 

> Here are several English translation options that try to capture the layered meanings and structure of the phrase:
> 
> 1. **"Auspicious is the origin—divination at its primary, eternal constancy brings no fault; yet unrest follows: when it comes later, misfortune ensues."**
> 
> 2. **"Fortune at the source: the original divination, forever steadfast, is without blame—but when it later appears, discord and ill omen arise."**
> 
> 3. **"The auspicious beginning of divination—its primary, eternal rectitude bears no fault; however, upon its later arrival, inauspiciousness follows."**
> 
> 4. **"At the source, divination is auspicious; its original, lasting integrity is faultless, yet when it eventually comes, misfortune is its companion."**
> 
> 5. **"From an auspicious origin, the act of divination—with its enduring and unerring nature—yields no blame; but when it comes later, ill fortune is found."**
> 
> Each version aims to reflect the sense that an original or primary auspicious force (吉原筮元永貞无咎) stands in contrast to a later, less favorable outcome (不寧方來後夫凶). Adjustments can be made to best fit your intended context or nuance.
